gpu: Support GPU passthrough to LXD containers using Container Device Interface (CDI) (#13562)
canonical/lxd: doc/reference/devices_gpu.md

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical pci=<pci_address>

Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an instance using the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/cncf-tags/container-device-interface) (CDI) notation.

> This applies to container only through the `id` configuration option to pass the fully-qualified CDI name:

Author: that's correct. The fully-qualified CDI names are supported only for containers and not for VMs.

> This applies to container only through the `id` configuration option to pass the fully-qualified CDI name:

Author: fixed (I put it in the config option metadata)

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=<fq_CDI_name>

Here are some examples of fully-qualified CDI names:

- `nvidia.com/gpu=gpu0` : this instructs LXD to operate a discrete GPU (dGPU) passthrough of brand Nvidia with the first discovered GPU on your system. You can use the `nvidia-smi` tool on your host to know which identifier to use.
- `nvidia.com/gpu=igpu0` : this instructs LXD to operate an integrated GPU (iGPU) passthrough of brand Nvidia with the first discovered iGPU on your system. An iGPU won't be detected by the `nvidia-smi` tool, so we encourage the user to use the `nvidia-ctk` tool through `nvidia-ctk cdi generate` to list the available iGPU devices.

> - `nvidia.com/gpu=all` : this instructs LXD to pass all the host GPUs of brand Nvidia through the container.

Author: fixed

> Adding a device with the CDI notation is particularly useful if you have Nvidia runtime libraries and configuration installed on your host and that you want to pass these files to your container. Let's take the example of the iGPU passthrough:

Author: fixed

> Your host is an Nvidia AGX / IGX board and therefore you have an Nvidia Tegra SoC with a powerful iGPU. You also have the Jetson SDK installed on the host, giving you plenty of useful libraries to handle AI workloads. You would want to create a LXD container and run an inference job inside the container using the iGPU as a backend. You would also like the inference job to be ran inside Docker container (or whatever OCI-compliant runtime). You could do something like this:

Reviewer: This sounds very marketing-like. :wink: 
Is the part about Jetson actually required? Isn't what we need to say just that you have a powerful GPU that you want to use in a container?

Author: The part about Jetson is not stricly needed in the sense that the passthrough will work without it but if wou want to actually use the iGPU for something useful inside the container, then you need the libraries that come with the SDK.

Author: fixed

>     lxc init ubuntu:jammy t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    lxc init ubuntu:22.04 t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true
```
(Or ideally 24.04 if this works the same way?)

Author: fiixed

    lxc config device add t1 igpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/gpu=igpu0

> You can now apply this `cloud-init` script to your instance to install the the Docker runtime, the [Nvidia Container Toolkit](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit) and a script to run a test [TensorRT](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT) workload:

Reviewer: Let's break the instructions up in to steps - initialise a container, add a device, add cloud-init, start and wait, run your command. This should make it easier to read.

Author: fixed

  - curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/libnvidia-container/stable/deb/nvidia-container-toolkit.list | sed 's#deb https://#deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/nvidia-container-toolkit-keyring.gpg] https://#g' | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-container-toolkit.list
  - apt-get update
  - DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get install -y nvidia-container-toolkit
  - nvidia-ctk runtime configure
  - systemctl restart docker
```

Now you can start the instance, wait for the `cloud-init` process to finish inside the container and run the TensorRT workload inside the docker container (note: do not forget to modify the `mode` of the Nvidia Container Runtime inside the LXD container to the value `csv` and not `auto` if you want to let Docker know that the Nvidia runtime must be enabled with CSV mode. This configuration file can be found at `/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml`):

    lxc start t1
    lxc shell t1
    root@t1 # docker run --gpus all --runtime nvidia --rm -v $(pwd):/sh_input nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt:24.02-py3-igpu bash /sh_input/run_tensorrt.sh

> See {ref}`instances-configure-devices` for more information.

Author: fixed

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical pci=<pci_address>

> Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an instance using the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/cncf-tags/container-device-interface) (CDI) notation.

Reviewer 2: Does this support only containers? If so we should say :

> Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an *container*

Reviewer 2: Where is `fq_CDI_name` defined in the docs? How can the end user know what that is?

Author: fixed

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=<fq_CDI_name>

See {ref}`instances-configure-devices` for more information.

#### Passing an NVIDIA iGPU to a container

If you have NVIDIA runtime libraries and configuration installed on your host and you want to pass these files to your container, you should add a device with the CDI notation.
Consider the following scenario:

Your host is an NVIDIA single board computer that has a Tegra SoC with an iGPU, and you have an SDK for handling AI workloads installed on the host. You want to create a LXD container and run an inference job inside the container using the iGPU as a backend. This job should run inside a Docker container (or another OCI-compliant runtime).
To achieve this, complete the following steps:

1. Initialize a LXD container:

>        lxc init ubuntu:24.04 t1 --config security.nesting=true --config security.privileged=true

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should be encouraging the use of security.privileged in this case.

What was the requirement for needing privileged?

Reviewer 2: > Docker requires a privileged LXD container in order to run properly.

This isn't entirely true. Do you know why it needs privileged?

It is possible to run some docker containers without privileged mode, so we should seek to understand what in this specific example requires it.

I think we should use the simple example you mention here, and then move the more detail specific example into a howto/tutorial page.

Author: fixed

1. Add an iGPU device to your container:

       lxc config device add t1 igpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/igpu=0

> 1. Create a `cloud-init` script that installs the Docker runtime, the [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit), and a script to run a test [TensorRT](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT) workload:

Reviewer 2: This all feels too specific for the device reference section - it should cover the meanings and valid values of each config key, and give a simple short example of how to pass a device through.

But this looks to me more like a specific how to or tutorial.

What do you think @ru-fu ?

Reviewer: It depends on how generally relevant this example is. 
If it is a common use case, moving it to a how-to makes sense.

However, I have the feeling this is very specific, and in this case, turning it into a how-to makes it very visible and presents it as a common recommendation. I can't judge if that is a problem or not.

In general, we have the configuration examples sections here to show how to achieve specific goals, so I think it's okay to leave it here (if we don't want to promote it too much). But of course it is quite long.

Author: fixed

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical pci=<pci_address>

Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an instance using the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/cncf-tags/container-device-interface) (CDI) notation.

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=<fq_CDI_name>

See {ref}`instances-configure-devices` for more information.

#### Passing an NVIDIA iGPU to a container

> Adding a device with the CDI notation is particularly useful if you have NVIDIA runtime libraries and configuration installed on your host and that you want to pass these files to your container. Let's take the example of the iGPU passthrough:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have NVIDIA runtime libraries and configuration installed on your host and you want to pass these files to your container, you should add a device with the CDI notation.

Consider the following scenario:
```

Author: fixed

> 
> Your host is an NVIDIA single board computer that has a Tegra SoC with an iGPU. You also have an SDK installed on the host, giving you access to plenty of useful libraries to handle AI workloads. You would want to create a LXD container and run an inference job inside the container using the iGPU as a backend. You would also like the inference job to be ran inside Docker container (or whatever OCI-compliant runtime). You could do something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your host is an NVIDIA single board computer that has a Tegra SoC with an iGPU, and you have an SDK for handling AI workloads installed on the host. You want to create a LXD container and run an inference job inside the container using the iGPU as a backend. This job should run inside a Docker container (or another OCI-compliant runtime). 

To achieve this, complete the following steps:
```

Author: fixed

> Initialize a LXD container:
> 
>     lxc init ubuntu:24.04 t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Initialize a LXD container:

       lxc init ubuntu:24.04 t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true
```

Author: fixed

>     lxc init ubuntu:24.04 t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true

Author: The `security.privileged=true` setting in `lxc` essentially removes most of the isolation mechanisms that `lxc` typically employs. The container receives the full set of Linux capabilities, and lxc disables its default AppArmor profile and seccomp filters. Many LSM hooks are bypassed, and the container gains access to all host devices. While namespaces are still used, their effectiveness in isolating the container is reduced.This also lifts many cgroup-based restrictions, potentially allows mount propagation to the host, and may expose more extensive parts of sysfs and procfs to the container. The container might even access the host's kernel keyring. I found out that for some nested virtualized applications like Docker (needing access to the iGPU), this is required.. But I did not dig deeper than that to be honest..

>     lxc init ubuntu:24.04 t1 --config security.nested=true --config security.privileged=true

Author: fixed

> Add an iGPU device to your container:
> 
>     lxc config device add t1 igpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/gpu=igpu0
> 
> Apply a `cloud-init` script to your instance to install the the Docker runtime, the [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit) and a script to run a test [TensorRT](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT) workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add an iGPU device to your container:

       lxc config device add t1 igpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/gpu=igpu0

1. Create a `cloud-init` script that installs the Docker runtime, the [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit), and a script to run a test [TensorRT](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT) workload:
```

Author: fixed

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Indent accordingly.

Author: fixed

> #cloud-config

Author: it's not a typo, it is really `cloud-config` :)

> #cloud-config

Author: fixed

package_update: true
packages:
  - docker.io
write_files:

>   - path: /etc/docker/daemon.json

Author: fixed

    permissions: '0755'
    owner: root:root
    content: |
      #!/bin/bash
      echo "OS release,Kernel version"
      (. /etc/os-release; echo "${PRETTY_NAME}"; uname -r) | paste -s -d,
      echo
      nvidia-smi -q
      echo
      exec bash -o pipefail -c "
      cd /workspace/tensorrt/samples
      make -j4
      cd /workspace/tensorrt/bin
      ./sample_onnx_mnist
      retstatus=\${PIPESTATUS[0]}
      echo \"Test exited with status code: \${retstatus}\" >&2
      exit \${retstatus}
      "
runcmd:
  - systemctl start docker
  - systemctl enable docker
  - usermod -aG docker root
  - curl -fsSL https://nvidia.github.io/libnvidia-container/gpgkey | gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/nvidia-container-toolkit-keyring.gpg
  - curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/libnvidia-container/stable/deb/nvidia-container-toolkit.list | sed 's#deb https://#deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/nvidia-container-toolkit-keyring.gpg] https://#g' | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-container-toolkit.list
  - apt-get update
  - DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get install -y nvidia-container-toolkit
  - nvidia-ctk runtime configure
  - systemctl restart docker
```

> Apply this `cloud-init` setup to your instance:
> 
>     lxc config set t1 cloud-init.user-data - < cloud-init.yml
> 
> Now you can start the instance:
> 
>     lxc start t1
> 
> Wait for the `cloud-init` process to finish:
> 
>     lxc exec t1 -- cloud-init status --wait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply this `cloud-init` setup to your instance:

       lxc config set t1 cloud-init.user-data - < cloud-init.yml

1. Start the instance:

       lxc start t1

1. Wait for the `cloud-init` process to finish:

       lxc exec t1 -- cloud-init status --wait
```

Author: fixed

> Finally, you can run your inference job inside the LXD container. Note: do not forget to modify the `mode` of the NVIDIA Container Runtime inside the LXD container to the value `csv` and not `auto` if you want to let Docker know that the NVIDIA runtime must be enabled with CSV mode. This configuration file can be found at `/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml`:

Author: fixed

> Finally, you can run your inference job inside the LXD container. Note: do not forget to modify the `mode` of the NVIDIA Container Runtime inside the LXD container to the value `csv` and not `auto` if you want to let Docker know that the NVIDIA runtime must be enabled with CSV mode. This configuration file can be found at `/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml`:
> 
>     lxc shell t1
>     root@t1 # docker run --gpus all --runtime nvidia --rm -v $(pwd):/sh_input nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt:24.02-py3-igpu bash /sh_input/run_tensorrt.sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
You can now run your inference job inside the LXD container. 

```{note}
The NVIDIA runtime must be enabled with CSV mode.
Therefore, you must modify the `mode` of the NVIDIA Container Runtime inside the LXD container to the value `csv` and not `auto` when running Docker.
You can do this by editing the `/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml` configuration file:

    lxc shell t1
    root@t1 # docker run --gpus all --runtime nvidia --rm -v $(pwd):/sh_input nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt:24.02-py3-igpu bash /sh_input/run_tensorrt.sh
```
````

Reviewer: My suggestion is probably wrong, because I don't understand what you're trying to say here. Mainly I don't understand how the configuration file is related to the command you give, and what that has to do with CSV mode.

To explain it better, you should first explain what the problem is (in my guess, "The NVIDIA runtime must be enabled with CSV mode."), then give an explanation on how to fix it ("Therefore, you must modify the `mode` of the NVIDIA Container Runtime inside the LXD container to the value `csv` and not `auto` when running Docker.") and then give the concrete instructions ("You can do this by editing the `/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml` configuration file: <commands>").

Author: fixed

See {ref}`instances-configure-devices` for more information.

> ### Configuration examples with the Container Device Interface (CDI) mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### CDI mode
```

Reviewer: We're already in the config example section, so let's just add a subsection instead of a second config examples section.

Author: fixed

> Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an instance using the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/cncf-tags/container-device-interface) (CDI) notation through a _fully-qualified CDI name_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a specific GPU from the host system as a `physical` GPU device to an instance using the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/cncf-tags/container-device-interface) (CDI) notation through a fully-qualified CDI name:
```

Author: fixed

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=<fully_qualified_CDI_name>

> For example, here is how you can add the first available NVIDIA discrete GPU on your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, add the first available NVIDIA discrete GPU on your system:
```

Author: fixed

    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/gpu=0

For example, here is how you can add the first available NVIDIA discrete GPU on your system:

>     lxc config device add c1 gpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/gpu=0

Reviewer: This is a duplicate from above, isn't it? Just with `c1` and `gpu0`. I would stick to `<instance_name>` and `<device_name>` for all examples (since this is what we're doing for the other examples on this page).

> Also, if your machine has an NVIDIA iGPU (integrated GPU) located at index 0, you can add it like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your machine has an NVIDIA iGPU (integrated GPU) located at index 0, add it like this:
```

Author: fixed

>     lxc config device add c1 igpu0 gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/igpu=0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    lxc config device add <instance_name> <device_name> gpu gputype=physical id=nvidia.com/igpu=0
```

Author: fixed

> For a complete example on how to use a GPU CDI passthrough, see this:
> 
> ```{filtered-toctree}
> :titlesonly:
> 
> :diataxis: Docker GPU workload in a LXD container </howto/container_gpu_passthrough_with_docker>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete example on how to use a GPU CDI passthrough, see {ref}`container-gpu-passthrough-with-docker`.
```
```

Author: fixed
